docs/README.md, before:

![](pnl-bwh-hms.png)



Outlier detection tool utilizing FreeSurfer segmentation statistics, built using https://plotly.com/dash .
However, it can be used for any table that has properties on the first row and subject ids on the first column.
Potential applications include [TBSS](https://github.com/pnlbwh/TBSS/blob/master/docs/TUTORIAL.md#step-6-roivoxelwise-analysis) roi statistics, and group-level statistics generated by [mriqc](https://github.com/poldracklab/mriqc). 

# Installation

Clone the repository:

    git clone https://github.com/pnlbwh/freesurfer-analysis.git

On Python 3, installation of dependencies can be as simple as:
    
    pip install -r requirements.txt

# Running

* Visualize summary on web browser (http://localhost:8050/):

```bash
# comma separted (default)
python scripts\generate-summary.py -i path\to\asegstats_lh.csv -o \tmp\fs-stats\
# tab separated
python scripts\generate-summary.py -i path\to\asegstats_lh.csv -t tab -o \tmp\fs-stats\
```

* Enable roi rendering (for FreeSurfer only) with visualization:

    
    python scripts\generate-summary.py -i path\to\asegstats_lh.csv -o \tmp\fs-stats\ -t path\to\sub-$\anat\freesurfer
    

* Generate input table from FreeSurfer statistics:

    
    python scripts\stats2table.py -c path\to\caselist.txt -t path\to\sub-$\anat\freesurfer -o \tmp\fs-stats



# Troubleshooting

* `Address already in use`: The error implies that the port mentioned in 
`app.run_server(debug=False, port= 8040, host= 'localhost')` is already in use.

```bash
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/freesurfer-analysis/scripts/analyze-stats.py", line 170, in <module>
    app.run_server(debug=False, port= 8040, host= 'localhost')
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/dash/dash.py", line 1509, in run_server
    self.server.run(host=host, port=port, debug=debug, **flask_run_options)
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/flask/app.py", line 990, in run
    run_simple(host, port, self, **options)
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/werkzeug/serving.py", line 1052, in run_simple
    inner()
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/werkzeug/serving.py", line 1005, in inner
    fd=fd,
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/werkzeug/serving.py", line 848, in make_server
    host, port, app, request_handler, passthrough_errors, ssl_context, fd=fd
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/werkzeug/serving.py", line 740, in __init__
    HTTPServer.__init__(self, server_address, handler)
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/socketserver.py", line 456, in __init__
    self.server_bind()
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/http/server.py", line 136, in server_bind
    socketserver.TCPServer.server_bind(self)
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/socketserver.py", line 470, in server_bind
    self.socket.bind(self.server_address)
OSError: [Errno 98] Address already in use
```

One way to solve this issue would be to follow 
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11583562/how-to-kill-a-process-running-on-particular-port-in-linux .
However, if you do not have privilege over that port, you might not be able to stop it from listening. 

In that case, open `scripts/ports.py` and assign another four digit port to the variable reported in the traceback, and try again:

    summary_port=8050
    graphs_port=8051
    table_port=8052


* Provide -d

```bash
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "C:\Users\tashr\Documents\GitHub\freesurfer-analysis\scripts\analyze-stats.py", line 162, in <module>
    value=regions[0]
IndexError: index 0 is out of bounds for axis 0 with size 0
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File ".\generate-summary.py", line 176, in <module>
    sleep(60)
```

The program parses csv files (comma separated) by default. 
If you provide a tsv file (tab separated) as input, please also provide `-d tab`.

Commit message:

add TOC, zenodo DOI, fix web artifact

docs/README.md, after:

![](pnl-bwh-hms.png)

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/doi/10.5281/zenodo.3762476.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3762476) [![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3.6-green.svg)]() [![Platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/Platform-linux--64%20%7C%20osx--64%20%7C%20win--64-orange.svg)]()

*freesurfer-analysis* is an interactive statistics visualization tool. 
Developed by Tashrif Billah and Sylvain Bouix, Brigham and Women's Hospital (Harvard Medical School)

Table of Contents
=================
    
   * [Citation](#citation) 
   * [Installation](#installation)
   * [Running](#running)
   * [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

Table of Contents created by [gh-md-toc](https://github.com/ekalinin/github-markdown-toc)

Outlier detection tool utilizing FreeSurfer segmentation statistics, built using https://plotly.com/dash .
However, it can be used for any table that has properties on the first row and subject ids on the first column.
Potential applications include [TBSS](https://github.com/pnlbwh/TBSS/blob/master/docs/TUTORIAL.md#step-6-roivoxelwise-analysis) roi statistics, and group-level statistics generated by [mriqc](https://github.com/poldracklab/mriqc). 

# Citation

If the package is useful in your research, please cite as below:

Billah, Tashrif; Bouix; Sylvain; **TBD**, https://github.com/pnlbwh/freesurfer-analysis, 2020, DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.3762476

# Installation

Clone the repository:

    git clone https://github.com/pnlbwh/freesurfer-analysis.git

On Python 3, installation of dependencies can be as simple as:
    
    pip install -r requirements.txt

# Running

* Visualize summary on web browser (http://localhost:8050/):

```bash
# comma separted (default)
python scripts\generate-summary.py -i path\to\asegstats_lh.csv -o \tmp\fs-stats\
# tab separated
python scripts\generate-summary.py -i path\to\asegstats_lh.csv -t tab -o \tmp\fs-stats\
```

* Enable roi rendering (for FreeSurfer only) with visualization:

> python scripts\generate-summary.py -i path\to\asegstats_lh.csv -o \tmp\fs-stats\ -t path\to\sub-$\anat\freesurfer
    

* Generate input table from FreeSurfer statistics:

> python scripts\stats2table.py -c path\to\caselist.txt -t path\to\sub-$\anat\freesurfer -o \tmp\fs-stats


# Troubleshooting

* `Address already in use`: The error implies that the port mentioned in 
`app.run_server(debug=False, port= 8040, host= 'localhost')` is already in use.

```bash
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/freesurfer-analysis/scripts/analyze-stats.py", line 170, in <module>
    app.run_server(debug=False, port= 8040, host= 'localhost')
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/dash/dash.py", line 1509, in run_server
    self.server.run(host=host, port=port, debug=debug, **flask_run_options)
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/flask/app.py", line 990, in run
    run_simple(host, port, self, **options)
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/werkzeug/serving.py", line 1052, in run_simple
    inner()
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/werkzeug/serving.py", line 1005, in inner
    fd=fd,
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/werkzeug/serving.py", line 848, in make_server
    host, port, app, request_handler, passthrough_errors, ssl_context, fd=fd
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/site-packages/werkzeug/serving.py", line 740, in __init__
    HTTPServer.__init__(self, server_address, handler)
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/socketserver.py", line 456, in __init__
    self.server_bind()
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/http/server.py", line 136, in server_bind
    socketserver.TCPServer.server_bind(self)
  File "/data/pnl/soft/pnlpipe3/miniconda3/envs/pnlpipe3/lib/python3.6/socketserver.py", line 470, in server_bind
    self.socket.bind(self.server_address)
OSError: [Errno 98] Address already in use
```

One way to solve this issue would be to follow 
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11583562/how-to-kill-a-process-running-on-particular-port-in-linux .
However, if you do not have privilege over that port, you might not be able to stop it from listening. 

In that case, open `scripts/ports.py` and assign another four digit port to the variable reported in the traceback, and try again:

    summary_port=8050
    graphs_port=8051
    table_port=8052


* Provide -d

```bash
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "C:\Users\tashr\Documents\GitHub\freesurfer-analysis\scripts\analyze-stats.py", line 162, in <module>
    value=regions[0]
IndexError: index 0 is out of bounds for axis 0 with size 0
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File ".\generate-summary.py", line 176, in <module>
    sleep(60)
```

The program parses csv files (comma separated) by default. 
If you provide a tsv file (tab separated) as input, please also provide `-d tab`.
